---
title: Locales 2019
created: '2021-01-05T22:19:08.228598'
modified: '2021-01-05T22:19:08.228605'
state: active
type: dataset
tags:
  - City
  - Distant
  - Fringe
  - Geography
  - Indicators
  - Locale
  - Nces
  - Remote
  - Rural
  - School
  - School District
  - Suburb
  - Town
groups: []
csv_url: >-
  https://data-nces.opendata.arcgis.com/datasets/b437474b90484b0ebcc0d1904a51ae3d_0.csv?outSR=%7B%22latestWkid%22%3A4269%2C%22wkid%22%3A4269%7D
json_url: ''
layout: post

---
<div style='text-align:Left;'><p style='margin:0 0 0 0;'><span>This data layer produced by the National Center for Education Statistics’ (NCES) Education Demographic and Geographic Estimates (EDGE) program provides a geographic locale framework that classifies all U.S. territory into twelve categories ranging from Large Cities to Remote Rural areas. NCES uses this framework to describe the type of geographic area where schools and school districts are located. The criteria for these classifications are defined by NCES, but they rely on standard geographic areas developed and maintained by the U.S. Census Bureau. The 2019 NCES Locale boundaries are based on geographic areas represented in Census TIGER/Line 2019. The NCES Education Demographic and Geographic Estimate (EDGE) program collaborates with the U.S. Census Bureau’s Education Demographic, Geographic, and Economic Statistics (EDGE) Branch to annually update the locale boundaries. For more information about the NCES locale framework, </span>and to download the data, see: <a href='https://nces.ed.gov/programs/edge/Geographic/LocaleBoundaries' rel='nofollow ugc' target='_blank'>https://nces.ed.gov/programs/edge/Geographic/LocaleBoundaries</a>. The classifications include:</p><p style='margin:0 0 0 0;'><span><span></span></span></p><p style='margin:0 0 0 0;'></p><ul><li><span><span>City - Large (11): Territory inside an Urbanized Area and inside a Principal City with population of 250,000 or more. </span></span></li><li><span><span>City - Midsize (12): Territory inside an Urbanized Area and inside a Principal City with population less than 250,000 and greater than or equal to 100,000. </span></span></li><li><span><span>City - Small (13): Territory inside an Urbanized Area and inside a Principal City with population less than 100,000. </span></span></li><li><span><span>Suburb – Large (21): Territory outside a Principal City and inside an Urbanized Area with population of 250,000 or more. </span></span></li><li><span><span>Suburb - Midsize (22): Territory outside a Principal City and inside an Urbanized Area with population less than 250,000 and greater than or equal to 100,000. </span></span></li><li><span><span>Suburb - Small (23): Territory outside a Principal City and inside an Urbanized Area with population less than 100,000. </span></span></li><li><span><span>Town - Fringe (31): Territory inside an Urban Cluster that is less than or equal to 10 miles from an Urbanized Area. </span></span></li><li><span><span>Town - Distant (32): Territory inside an Urban Cluster that is more than 10 miles and less than or equal to 35 miles from an Urbanized Area. </span></span></li><li><span><span>Town - Remote (33): Territory inside an Urban Cluster that is more than 35 miles of an Urbanized Area. </span></span></li><li><span><span>Rural - Fringe (41): Census-defined rural territory that is less than or equal to 5 miles from an Urbanized Area, as well as rural territory that is less than or equal to 2.5 miles from an Urban Cluster. </span></span></li><li><span><span>Rural - Distant (42): Census-defined rural territory that is more than 5 miles but less than or equal to 25 miles from an Urbanized Area, as well as rural territory that is more than 2.5 miles but less than or equal to 10 miles from an Urban Cluster. </span></span></li><li><span><span>Rural - Remote (43): Census-defined rural territory that is more than 25 miles from an Urbanized Area and is also more than 10 miles from an Urban Cluster.</span></span></li></ul><p></p></div>
